---
layout: post
title: Thoughts on the piece Voice Over from This American Life
---

I caught this This American Life piece about a trans guy's experience with his
voice as a singer on NPR on Friday, and wow did I get a lot of Feelings from it
(in a positive sense! It's a very good piece and you should listen to it!)

[Voice Over - This American Life: Sandy Allen tells the story of learning to play an instrument that suddenly sounds very different â€” his own voice. (19 minutes)](https://www.thisamericanlife.org/778/me-minus-me/act-one-2)

The first roughly half of the piece is about hesitancy about going on T and
that's currently disc-horse on twitter and I don't feel the need/want to get
into it loll, but it's a good perspective on it. But after that it's about him
working through his vocal changes and voice breaks and such, and it was so
interesting for me to listen to his experience with it, cause when that
happened to me it was like, traumatic, almost.

In 8th grade, I was still more or less a soprano, and in the all-boys choir
that you had to be in to be in the honor choir ('''girls''' had to be in the
all-girls choir) the soprano section was like me and a bunch of 6th graders. In
the honor choir itself (or maybe it was just my standard curricular choir, I'm
not sure) I was also able to be a soprano/alto, and I was learning that part
for the final concert of the year, along with a handful of '''other''' boys.
Until, they decided that they wanted to go and just be tenors, and I was the
only '''boy''' left among the altos/sopranos (I know they're not one thing I
just can't remember which one I was in specifically). And it felt really
uncomfortable to me in a way I couldn't quite articulate, even though I loved,
loved, loved singing high! And I was literally weighing my options, this
feeling of uncomfortability about being feminine(? or something like that?) vs,
and I literally remember thinking something like this, that this'll be the last
chance I have to sing in this range that I love. And I ended up making the
decision, and getting up without saying anything to the director and quietly
moving to the tenor section of the risers, in front of everyone. He asks "oh,
are you gonna be a tenor?" and I'm like, "yep". And I ended up being right
about what I was thinking, that _was_ the last chance that I had to sing in a
high range.

Then in high school, the freshman choir was split by gender (or by alto/soprano
/ tenor/bass but like, you know) and I was held back at the end of the year
for, not being able to harmonize well at that point? Something like that, I
don't remember exactly. And so at the start of sophomore year, I'm maybe 2
weeks into my gender existential crisis and I'm in a '''boy''''s choir. And I'm
a tenor 1 (the tenor part that tends to sing the higher parts), and like, it
could be worse. I still really like singing, and I got used to singing tenor
the year before without any gender baggage attached - though at that point I am
realizing that I actually do have a _shitton_ of voice dysphoria, and am
wanting to dig my larynx out of my throat with a spoon. But it's not as bad
when I'm singing, and I can at least do vocal warm-ups like an octave higher
than the rest of the choir cause nobody can really notice.

And then, at the start of 2nd semester, we do another round of voice tests. And
the long-term substitute we had (cause the normal teacher was on paternity
leave for 6 weeks) places me as a baritone. And I just really really really
really dislike the feeling of that but can't say why without, y'know. So he
ends up being the second person I ever come out to, after my parents just 2
weeks prior. I'm trying to explain after class why I don't want to be a
baritone and he's like "but you'd be a good fit!" and I wait til I'm the only
kid left in the classroom and am like, "um, the reason I don't want to sing
baritone is because I'm transgender ,,,,"

And alll that to give context to how it felt to listen to another trans person
talk about going through those same changes, but in an _intentional_ and
_gender-affirming_ and _joyous_ way, in the end. And for a little bit, he
expresses similar feelings of having "lost" a voice, but he comes out the other
side really loving his new one. And him singing at the end of the piece, with a
more stabilized masc voice, feeling confident and content in it, made me tear
up.

He also says he specifically loves the sound of it specifically as a _trans_
voice, which I've grown to love my voice for as well. I haven't done very much
voice training, but the little I have makes this graph ring very true for me,
lmao:

![a hand-drawn graph. in the bottom-left corner, there's a small section labeled "dude". in the top-right corner, there's a small section labeled "woman". the rest of the area of the graph is labeled "fruity canyon".](/imgs/fruitycanyon.jpg)

And do I want to do more voice training, and be able to sing comfortably in a
high range? Yes, absolutely. But I'm sorta content with my voice as it is,
certainly more than I was 3 years ago, and I think that's what matters.

---

I originally wrote this as a
[twitter thread](https://twitter.com/coolreader18/status/1564082903335813120)
but decided to put it as a post here to serve as a more canonical version of
the writing.
